hey guys I'm a nihilistic atheist in
case you hadn't heard I do not regard
the religion of Judaism positively at
all but I am tied to it as a tradition
by blood and by anti-semitism because so
many people planet Earth are so
anti-semitic I have to carry the Jewish
identity in history with me forever
another choice about it back when I
signed up to join the Canadian Army I
was actually pretty pissed off that they
didn't have an option under ethnicity
for Jewish because that's the reality
Judaism is not my religion Jewishness is
my ethnicity and when you're signing up
to join the Canadian Army in 2016 the
war you're going to fight in Judaism and
anti-semitism are definitely going
concerns the army you're fighting
against does not regard Jews as
equivalent to Christians or equivalent
to white people or equivalent any other
Europeans definitely regarded as a
separate ethnic category so I'm a
nihilistic atheist but Judaism remains a
big deal in my life and it's not not
optionally and i also have a very
strange respect from this because I'm a
vegan who has a prior background not
just in Buddhism but as a scholar of
Buddhism somebody knows a lot about buzz
knows a lot about politics in Asia
including politics of ethnicity and
ethnic identity in Asia so with all that
haven't been said it's with a special
sense of apprehension that I see the
attempts to link Judaism to veganism to
make them into one ideology and really
what you're talking about is not even
biblical Judaism well as part of it it's
really a kind of ethnic nationalism it's
a kind of Jewish ethnic nationalism
trying to link that to veganism and a
lot of that's going on partly because of
the seeming success of veganism in
Israel and partly just because I think
there are there are a lot of people who
are ethnically jewish whether or not
they're religiously Jewish who want to
somehow promote Judaism through veganism
or promote veganism as a fast Judaism
I'm gonna play you a clip right now from
this group who who have the catchy name
Jewish vague
that's the name of their foundation
there are real incorporated foundation
there are registered charity they're
taking donations they're making things
happen so I mean you know credit words
do they exist Jewish bag is not just a
website it's an actual charity its
national organization but I think you're
going to hear pretty quickly are going
to play you like a one-minute clip and
you're going to hear what my problem is
this approach what your rabbi maybe
never told you is that a plant-based
diet is truly the ideal in Judaism that
meeting while permitted is presented in
a negative light in some cases a very
negative light so I just paused you may
be able to hear that that clearly
because it's a live recording from a
live lecture so he said what your rabbi
may have never told you and then he's
getting into giving a justification for
the bib lyssa tea for a biblical Old
Testament basis for veganism in Judaism
and besides all that we are many I've
even instructed by the mandated in
Judaism to treat animals with respect
and equipment exquisite imagine so right
so he's claiming and reason we are
mandated to treat animals with respect
and exquisite compassion sure that our
organization is on a rock solid Jewish
foundation what is the sort of thing
people only say when it's not true if
you're someone say you know a merican
humanitarian intervention in Haiti is on
a rock-solid foundation already you know
it's [ __ ] up someone says to you you
know uh you know Canada's humanitarian
engagement in Afghanistan is on a
rock-solid foundation why would you say
that if it were true when things are
actually on a rock solid foundation
nobody ever says that even if this is
the first you've ever heard of Judaism
already from the way this guy presents
the information uh got a sense that
actually the foundation that that
veganism rests on within Judaism is
pretty shaky
I'm ending something on to Judaism we're
raising up core values that too often or
suppressed or so again sorry even though
it's really brief that's crucial he says
we are not appending something on to
Judaism so he's arguing that they're not
appending veganism on to Judaism he says
but they're raising up values that are
already within Judaism so let me move in
order okay sorry that's enough of that
he think it's into talking about the
organization and what they do and thanks
their donors and then goes on to other
topics okay so as simple as that those
30 seconds I think it was well under one
minute I was quitting there as simple as
that is that's really everything I
object to in this premise for this
approach to veganism and actually I
object to it equally whether we're
talking about it within Buddhism or
talking about it within Judaism I think
it's actually really important to
recognize the extent to which veganism
is a new idea and veganism has very
shaky roots if any in ancient religions
I mean I've met people have tried to
argue that veganism is a natural
extension of Islam that veganism is a
natural extension of Christianity and
again with Buddhism and Taoism even
though the argument seems so much easier
with Buddhism or Taoism for that matter
I think it's really really important to
recognize the opposite of what this guy
just claimed that this is a modern idea
that we are appending on to the ancient
tradition or the traditional religion
this is not an ancient idea we're
finding in or that was breached by the
Trojan now in the case of Judaism of
course it's a little bit extra observed
because anyone who is actually studied
pardon me anyone who's actually studied
the Torah anyone's actually studied the
Old Testament knows that that was a
religion absolutely built on animal
sacrifice ritual animal sacrifice and
meat-eating as part of the animals
arione just kill the animal you kill the
animal cook the animal share the meat
the ritual sharing of meat between the
different classes or different castes
including and especially you know the
the priestly caste however you want to
say it the ritually special cast um this
is the core of ancient Judaism ancient
Judaism was built
on ritualized meat-eating and the number
of laws uh-oh the whole the Old
Testament is virtually obsessed with law
both law as a general concept and then
details of particular laws the extension
which the laws really concern raising
animals at for food and ritual
slaughtering of animals in consuming is
ridiculous so you know honestly what I
think of when I hear this kind of to me
the totally fictional approach history
to me he is fictionalizing the history
of the religion it actually reminds me
of a crossroads I feel that the Western
world came to that all of Western
civilization came to back in the year
nineteen ninety-two 1992 is a long time
ago folks in 1992 there were many many
celebrations of the life and career of
Christopher Columbus ak1 de cologne um
1492 1992 the years sort of rhyme I
think everyone stood at a crossroads in
America in England in Spain in
Hispaniola and Alyssa I think ever
wanted to look in the mirror and ask
themselves are we going to fictionalize
the history of how Europe colonized and
Concord North American South America or
are we going to keep it real are we
going to be honest are we really going
to reexamine what happened are we going
to look at slavery and genocide and
conquest and the the individual person
of Christopher Columbus and his personal
involvement with atrocities the
involvement of the Catholic Church in
those atrocities that you know very
important role of Roma and of EDX of
legal decisions made in Rome in the
history colonization which way are we
going to go and from my memory I mean I
was a kid but in 1992 i can remember i
think you know Western civilization to
generalize about it Europe and all of
Europe's perform our callings I think in
1992 people really sat in the fence
during that year I think a lot of people
were not decided there were a lot of
people who felt maybe was harmless to
tell a sort of comforting lie
of half truths about to what extent
Columbus was a good man or a great man
or the discovery and colonization North
America was a good thing a great thing
and to present the enslavement and
genocide and slaughter of native peoples
in a fluttering light I think at that
moment uh there was a sort of indecision
but in the decades afterwards I think
there's been a great disambiguation I
think today among educated people it's
almost universally accepted that we have
to teach that Christopher Columbus was a
terrible person and that what he did
both in theory and practice and
conception and execution that you know
the the basic idea of that colonization
in terms of enslavement genocide etc was
was wrong and evil from the start the
actual ax carried out by Columbus and
his direct employees are crimes against
humanity that you remembered his
terrible things I honestly feel I've
seen that emerged as a kind of consensus
as a kind of common shared value in the
Western world since 1992 and partly
because in 1992 people had to face up to
the ugliness of propaganda that was just
outright celebrating and glorifying
Columbus I think people had to look at
that propaganda and think is this the
road we want to go down do we want to
live a lie and for how long for another
century for eternity or do we want to
deal with the truth um I think each of
these religions basically has to ask
themselves that question when it comes
to veganism and for me you know which
way I'd vote I would much rather see
people whether they're involved in
Judaism or Christianity or Islam or even
Buddhism take the honest down-to-earth
attitude that you know this is something
new this is a new modern ideal being
appended onto the religion if you
sincerely believe what this guy claims
i'll give you the link below this video
to his to the youtube page for this
group if you sincerely believe that this
is not a new idea but this is an ancient
and consistent part of christian urge
christianity judaism etc why are so few
pages devoted to it right the Bible
depending is many hundreds of pages long
I don't know what copy you have but
anyway maybe it's over a thousand pages
many many hundreds of pages long how
many pages are devoted to veganism now
in Buddhism even though I do think it is
easier to argue that Buddhism asks
questions that veganism can answer like
I think there are fundamental challenges
to our social values that can be
answered by veganism you can find in
Buddhism still Buddhism is not a vegan
religion it's not I've studied ancient
authentic canonical Buddhism and people
want to kids with of this but I can
basically put the on the same challenge
I can say look the Buddhist cannon is
much much longer than the Jewish Bible
we got thousands of pages how many of
those pages are devoted to veganism all
right and the answer my honest answer of
written articles I think the answer is
zero but even if I mean people managed
to pick out a couple of sentences that
they can kind of sort of interpret has
supported veganism this is this is
really a joke this is a bad joke this is
well into the realm of you know you're
past the point of diminishing returns
now um okay so really but this isn't my
thing to talk about other people have
talked about this there was actually a
Jewish vegan youtuber and she deleted
her channel because of the high jinks of
vegan cheetah because we can cheat a her
a stir and claimed they had a sexual
connection between them and they didn't
so respectable people get chased a tu
tool time but I remember she had a video
where she talked about a down-to-earth
way look the reality is the dietary
rules for true believing Orthodox Jews
are so complex there are some religious
Jews who become vegan just as a way to
simplify their lives where they look at
these ridiculous dietary rules that
you're supposed to follow as a religious
Jew and they decide you know what it's
easier to just be to be vegan now if
that's the connection you're working
with I think you in a sense this only
creates more problems we're very
accustomed to in veganism talking about
the difference between ethical vegans
and dietary vegans well now you're
talking about like religious
simplification vegans I discussed that
Pia so in theory you be tied with some
people who are neither ethical vegan
snored
Terry vegans but are becoming vegan so
they can avoid dealing with the
complexities of a religiously a ritual
and magical diet this is not a good
foundation for veganism as you know as a
political movement or even as a as a
diet trend or anything else but I think
there was some truth to that and I just
say her her channel is now deleted and
gone but she had some videos where she
was really countering the idea that Gary
Yurovsky had flown to Israel and given
some lectures and thousands of people
became vegan overnight that really is
total myth the bit there is an
interesting basis to examine for why
veganism grew as rapidly as it did with
in Israel and of course before that
vegetarianism somebody's got to do the
study on that somebody's got to do the
research but the answer is not Gary
Yourofsky the answer is not youtube and
it is also not in a simple sense a
connection to you know the Torah or the
Talmud or you know true believing
religious Judaism I guess that's I guess
that's all I had to say this video I
mean for me I think the most fundamental
question here whether you are an atheist
or not actually is is the parable I
posed in terms of Columbus the question
is in the present tense are we going to
fictionalize history or are we going to
face up to the reality of history that
is often ugly and often ideological
inconvenient right if the reality is
like the vast majority of people
identify as Jewish are frankly atheists
Jews now in 2016 you know II theism and
Judaism are de facto compatible there
are a lot of people who feel
passionately about Jewish identity or
Jewish nationalism or they're Jewish
Jewish ethnicity but who do not really
believe in a in a monotheistic God who
do not pray who don't have that kind of
personal religion anymore I understand
many of those people want to believe
that they're part of a tradition that is
moral and good so they're looking around
for bits and pieces of a vegan ethic or
vegan aesthetic in these copious
religious texts and is it is it that
they're looking for the Jewish religion
to justify veganism
or are they looking for veganism to
justify the Jewish religion I think it's
the latter I think in a lot of cases
people just want to believe that Judaism
is morally good so as soon as they're
ethically committed to veganism they
then look for some roots of veganism in
Judaism justified and i gotta tell you
the step forward for everyone whether
you're Jewish or Christian or Muslim or
Buddhist or Japanese Shinto the step
forward for everyone is to instead come
to the same realization we had to come
to with Columbus which is that we just
have to draw a line in history and we
have to admit frankly this is a
fundamental ethical problem that our
ancestors did not want to face up for
centuries and centuries or in some cases
for millennia this is this is a question
we're asking this is a question we feel
we have the answer to but there is no
point in pretending that our ancestors
shared this concern well that our
ancestors ask the same questions that
we're asking nor that our answer
ancestors ever came to the simple and in
electively modern solution that is
veganism hit me up